doc: Clarify data source source documentation when moving to asymmetric clusters (#3366)
mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas: docs/guides/advanced-cluster-new-sharding-schema.md

    - [Migrate advanced\_cluster type `GEOSHARDED`](#migrate-advanced_cluster-type-geosharded)
    - [Migrate advanced\_cluster type `REPLICASET`](#migrate-advanced_cluster-type-replicaset)
- [Use Independent Shard Scaling](#use-independent-shard-scaling)
- [Data Source Transition for Asymmetric Clusters](#data-source-transition-for-asymmetric-clusters)

> - [Use Auto-Scaling Per Shard](#use-auto-scaling-per-shard)

Reviewer: I see we forgot to add the last section `Resources and Data Sources Impacted by Independent Shard Scaling` within this index.

With this in mind, WDYT if we move `Data Source Transition for Asymmetric Clusters` as sub section within `Resources and Data Sources Impacted by Independent Shard Scaling`?

Author: thanks, changed here: https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/pull/3366/commits/c570d269762000b8c2f58f06c579cf6e73e28b9b

Reviewer 2: I think this is fine if both sections are included in this toc

> <a id="overview"></a>

Author: leftovers, not used anymore

}
```

## Data Source Transition for Asymmetric Clusters

> When a cluster transitions to asymmetric shards, customers using data sources must update their Terraform configuration to handle the new sharding schema.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use data sources, you must update your Terraform configuration to handle the new sharding schema when your clusters transition to asymmetric shards.
```

made this second person. We usually put the conditional first so users can quickly understand if this applies to them or not. The assumption I'm making here is that if you don't use data sources then you don't have to make any adjustments here when moving to asymmetric shards.

Author: thanks, changed here: https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/pull/3366/commits/1b05e4b1d982876ff2c556081e5572ad50210071

### Scenario: Cluster Becomes Asymmetric

If you have an existing cluster that becomes asymmetric due to independent shard scaling or auto-scaling per shard, you will encounter errors when using the legacy data sources.

**Error Symptoms:**

> - `mongodbatlas_cluster` data source will fail with API error code `ASYMMETRIC_SHARD_UNSUPPORTED`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `mongodbatlas_cluster` data source fails with API error code `ASYMMETRIC_SHARD_UNSUPPORTED`
```

Author: changed here: https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/pull/3366/commits/1b05e4b1d982876ff2c556081e5572ad50210071

> - `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` data source without `use_replication_spec_per_shard = true` will return an error asking you to enable this attribute

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` data source without `use_replication_spec_per_shard = true` returns an error asking you to enable this attribute
```

try to avoid future tense

Author: changed here: https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/pull/3366/commits/1b05e4b1d982876ff2c556081e5572ad50210071

### Required Changes

> **Before (will fail for asymmetric clusters):**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Before (fails for asymmetric clusters):**
```

Author: changed here: https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/pull/3366/commits/1b05e4b1d982876ff2c556081e5572ad50210071

```hcl
# This will fail with ASYMMETRIC_SHARD_UNSUPPORTED error
data "mongodbatlas_cluster" "example" {
  project_id = var.project_id
  name       = "my-cluster"
}

# This will fail and ask you to set use_replication_spec_per_shard = true
data "mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster" "example" {
  project_id = var.project_id
  name       = "my-cluster"
}
```

> **After (required for asymmetric clusters):**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**After (succeeds for asymmetric clusters):**
```
I think the fails / succeeds pairing is very effective in showing before / after state

Author: changed here: https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/pull/3366/commits/1b05e4b1d982876ff2c556081e5572ad50210071

```hcl
# Remove mongodbatlas_cluster data source completely
# Replace with mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster and enable the new schema

data "mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster" "example" {
  project_id                     = var.project_id
  name                           = "my-cluster"
  use_replication_spec_per_shard = true  # Required for asymmetric clusters
}
```

### Conditional Data Source Pattern

> For modules or configurations that need to support both symmetric and asymmetric clusters, you can use conditional data source creation:

Reviewer: One thing to consider is that `use_replication_spec_per_shard = true` can support both symmetric and asymmetric. I assume the main motivation for using this conditional pattern is if you strictly want to preserve the legacy representation for symmetric cluster. Maybe we can make this more clear here to avoid any confusion

Author: changed here: https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/pull/3366/commits/c570d269762000b8c2f58f06c579cf6e73e28b9b

Reviewer 2: agreed. we can perhaps add "we recommend" and provide a brief description of what can happen if you don't use the conditional pattern. It looks like we do provide some of this below.

- `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` data source without `use_replication_spec_per_shard = true` will return an error asking you to enable this attribute

#### Required Changes

**Before (will fail for asymmetric clusters):**
```hcl
# This will fail with ASYMMETRIC_SHARD_UNSUPPORTED error
data "mongodbatlas_cluster" "example" {
  project_id = var.project_id
  name       = "my-cluster"
}

# This will fail and ask you to set use_replication_spec_per_shard = true
data "mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster" "example" {
  project_id = var.project_id
  name       = "my-cluster"
}
```

**After (required for asymmetric clusters):**
```hcl
# Remove mongodbatlas_cluster data source completely
# Replace with mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster and enable the new schema

data "mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster" "example" {
  project_id                     = var.project_id
  name                           = "my-cluster"
  use_replication_spec_per_shard = true  # Required for asymmetric clusters
}
```

#### Conditional Data Source Pattern

For modules or configurations that need to support both symmetric and asymmetric clusters, you can use conditional data source creation. 

> **Note**: While `use_replication_spec_per_shard = true` supports both symmetric and asymmetric clusters, you may want to use the conditional pattern if you prefer to preserve the legacy data source representation for symmetric clusters, or if you need to maintain backward compatibility with existing module consumers.

Reviewer: nice

--- | --- | ---
`mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` | Data source must use the `use_replication_spec_per_shard` attribute. | -
`mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` | Use `replication_specs.#.zone_id` instead of `replication_specs.#.id`. | -

> `mongodbatlas_cluster` | Resource and Data Source will not work. API error code `ASYMMETRIC_SHARD_UNSUPPORTED`. | [cluster-to-advanced-cluster-migration-guide](cluster-to-advanced-cluster-migration-guide.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`mongodbatlas_cluster` | Resource and data source will not work. API error code `ASYMMETRIC_SHARD_UNSUPPORTED`. | [cluster-to-advanced-cluster-migration-guide](cluster-to-advanced-cluster-migration-guide.md)
```

Author: changed here: https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/pull/3366/commits/1b05e4b1d982876ff2c556081e5572ad50210071
